Okay my friends.
So let's mass together this last final step visualizing the decision tree regression results in high
resolution.
All right so we're gonna do kind of the same exercise as what we did previously with the.
As we are you know that funny exercise where we start from the polynomial regression code for the visualization
of the results meaning this one.
So we're going to start from this code.
And then the exercise for you will be to make the right change or changes in order to make this work
for the decision tree regression model.
If we did this successfully for the SB our moral well it will be a piece of cake to do it for the decision
tree regression model because indeed no features killing was needed and therefore we won't have to play
with the transform method or the inverse transfer method and therefore you will just smash this.
Okay.
So let's do this.
That's the exercise and let's take this whole code here you know which plots indeed the regression curve
in high resolution but for the pulling the meal regression model let's base that right here in the new
coat cell and now.
Well there you go.
Please press pause on the video and make the right change or right changes in order to make it work
for Decision Tree regression model.
Okay good.
Now I'm going to implement a solution with you.
And let's start with the obvious change.
Let's replace polynomial here by.
Well decision tree.
Okay.
And then what was the change or changes you had to make.
Well as I told you here it's super easy.
You just have to change two things and actually only one row which is row number four.
Right because this row number three is totally fine because here X and Y are on the right scale you
know because no feature skin was a place that's fine.
And here.
Well the obvious change that we have to make is of course to first replace this regressive by the right
name of the regressive which is regressive.
All right good.
Regressive.
And then here you know remember this poorly rag transformation object was used to transform the matrix
of single feature into this matrix of the same feature at different powers.
Part two three and four and this time here we absolutely don't need that because we're not doing polynomial
regression so I'm removing this and then also a parenthesis here and now guess what.
Well that's done right.
That's the simple visualization code when you know you don't have to apply feature scaling and you don't
have to transform your matrix of features into powered features as in polynomial regression.
So that was as simple as that.
I told you.
Right.
But now that was the good news and now I have some bad news you're going to see that the results are
not going to be pretty because indeed let's do this now.
Let's execute this cell.
There you go.
Playing.
And here are the decision tree regression resolve.
I really want to say this again the decision tree regression model is really not the best adapted to
two dimensional datasets you know with only one feature and one deep variable.
But once again I'd like to remind that the implementation we have here can be very easily adapted to
any other data sets and I will show you what to do at the end of this tutorial.
You know what the change in this code but I still wanted to show you the decision tree regression results
in 2D.
And so why isn't this pretty.
Because you know what this decision tree regression model simply did was to take the real results.
You know the real salary for each position level and then for all the position levels from position
level minus open five and the position level plus open five.
Well it predicted the salary to be the same as the position level in the middle.
All right.
So that's what it simply did.
And that's you know understandable and intuitive you know to understand because you know how decision
trees work.
They work by splitting the data through successive note.
And so at the end you know you get different ranges of the features where the prediction is the same.
And so here all the predicted salaries in this range of position levels are just the same and that's
why we have this stair looking like curve up to the last position level.
And of course here this is not continuous.
This is actually a vertical bar.
So the regression curve here is not continuous.
We jump from position level to the next one every step of one.
Okay.
So not pretty or not relevant at all into these.
But I still recommend to try the decision tree regression model for higher dimensional data sets because
indeed it can actually have great performance.
Okay.
So good to have said that.
And now just a quick bonus I'm going to show you that in low resolution this makes absolutely no sense
because you will see what happened.
I'm just going to add a codicil here.
I'm going to take every from here to here only.
And then I will paste that here.
Then I will just replace X with here by x and x rayed here by X also.
I'm going to plot this and this is the curve in low resolution.
And as you see this absolutely not makes any sense because now since we only made the predictions for
the integers you know going from one to 10.
Well of course since you understood that the predicted salary of the position level number six was just
the real salary itself.
Right.
Because it was trained on the whole dataset.
So here just absolutely doesn't make sense and therefore that's why.
Clearly not wanted to include that in the implementation.
All right.
You understand now.
So now I'm going to finish this tutorial and this section also by showing you what you would only need
to replace when applying this decision tree regression model on your future data sets in higher dimensions.
So let me show you.
Let's take the cells one by one.
Of course you will still need to import the libraries at the beginning.
Then when importing the dataset you will of course need to just replace the name of the data set here
and then maybe to include the first feature.
You know it will probably be a numerical future you know with numerical values.
So make sure to not forget to maybe replace this one by either zero or deleting the lower bound here
so that you include all the columns except the last one.
All right so going back to one.
All right.
And then here of course you keep this.
But make sure that indeed the dependent variable is at the very last column of your dataset.
Okay.
And then you need to check in your data set if there are any missing values and once again if you have
a huge dataset.
Well I would just recommend to apply the missing values tool of your data processing tool kit to your
whole dataset so that you don't have to check where they are.
And even if there are not any missing data.
Well the input will just leave your data set the same.
Then I recommend to check if there is any categorical data in which case you would have to apply your
either one hot encoder tool if you know there is no order relationship in your categorical variable
or the label encoded to if there is indeed an order a relationship like for example the size of a close
or.
Well actually the position levels of a company if they are collected in strings so don't forget to check
that out.
And then once again you don't have to apply feature scaling because indeed the decision to regression
more works with splits you know it splits your features in different successive ranges which is does
a technique that absolutely doesn't need feature scaling right.
It doesn't have to do with any coefficients or whatsoever it is just because you split your data set
through different note in order to collect in different final ranges your final predictions for different
ranges of values of the features.
So you clearly don't need to apply feature scaling.
All right.
And then let's see what we have to do next in order to you know adapted to any data set.
So actually that's the good news here.
You don't have anything to change unless you split your data into a training set and it's asset in which
case you would have to replace X and Y here by X train in y train then feel free to predict any new
results you want.
And if you have several features here well instead of putting the single value here you will have to
put the values of other features like six point five and then if you have let's say the age you can
put 30 and then if you have I don't know for example the number of years of experience you can put five
you know that's how you would predict a single observation when you have several features.
Okay good.
And then final important thing to understand if you have a dataset with multiple features.
Well this is absolutely not relevant because indeed this is only used to visualize the regression result
in two dimensions and therefore if you have several features you will have a dimension higher than two.
So you won't be able to plot anything here.
OK.
So you would just have to delete that cell and delete this text cell as well.
And that's only what you would have to do in order to make this decision tree regression work for your
future multi featured data set.
All right great.
So congratulations.
Now you added this new machinery model in your toolkit and especially in your regression tool kit so
congratulations.
And now we will tackle together the final regression model of this part 2 which will be the random forest
regression and which will smash in no time because you will see that it will be almost the same as the
decision tree regression model.
So either you'll join me in the artist or yours if you want to learn are or you'll join me in the next
section for the next practical activity on random forest.
And until then enjoy machine learning.